HOW TO USE - Axion Super Power Saving
=====================================
ResukiSU (KernelSU). RMX3430 / AxionOS 2.7. Release v3.7.12.

HOW IT WORKS
- Every change is written down before it is made, and put back on exit.
- A value you change yourself after us is never overwritten.
- CPU speed has ONE manager in this mode: the kernel's power-save governor
  (Options -> Performance -> "Processor power-save"). It holds every core at its lowest
  speed for as long as the mode is on - screen on and off - and no frequency
  ceiling is ever written by hand. The old ceiling options ("Limit the
  processor while asleep", "Keep power limits while using the phone") and the
  Low Power mode switch are gone; they all wrote speed limits, and you asked
  for the governor to be the only hand on the CPU.
- The graphics chip is the same story: "Graphics at minimum" holds it
  at its floor the whole time the mode is on - screen on and off.
- New: "Sleep six cores after a minute" (Options -> Performance, on by default). When the screen has
  been off for a whole minute, cores 2-7 switch off and only cores 0 and 1 stay
  awake. The moment you turn the screen on, every core comes back.
- Deep sleep and the per-app background limits still apply only while the
  screen is off, and are released the moment you wake it.
- A crash or reboot cannot leave the phone dark or the cores asleep.

INSTALLING OVER AN OLDER VERSION
- Switch the mode off first (door -> Exit), then install, then reboot. Installing
  a different version while the mode is on leaves one version's journal for
  another version to restore, which is what makes the exit log complain.

NEW IN THIS BUILD (v3.7.7)
- THE CORE SLEEP NOW FIRES ON TIME. Your own log caught it: the cores went
  down 63 minutes after the screen went dark, not one minute - they were
  queued behind the "deep phase" options, which can take the best part of an
  hour on this phone. The core sleep no longer queues behind anything: one
  minute of sleep, the cores go down, wake or not. And if you wake the phone
  in the exact moment they are going down, the same call puts them straight
  back.
- THE DEEP PHASE AND THE WAKE ARE NOW PARALLEL TOO. On your phone one
  screen-off spent 149s + 889s + 450s in three options, one after another;
  they now run together, and the wake restores the cores FIRST and then puts
  everything else back side by side, instead of minutes of sequential work
  while you hold the phone.
- UNIVERSAL, FOR THE OTHER PHONES. The dialer, SMS and emergency apps are now
  protected by ASKING the phone what holds those roles - on a stock-OEM phone
  that is the maker's own app, with a name no list can know. New option
  "Restrict system apps too" (OFF by default): on an OEM phone the preinstalled
  junk is usually a system app, and this stops and restricts it as well. On a
  clean ROM leave it off. "Restrict the ROM's background services" was already
  device-adaptive - it reads its candidates off whichever phone it runs on,
  every screen-off.

FROM v3.7.12
- THE BUILT-IN NAVIGATION WORKS NOW. v3.7.11 made it part of
  "Power-saving home" but an old saved "nav off" from an earlier version
  could still silence it. No more: home on = bar on, home off = your own
  navigation, nothing else decides.
- YOUR LAUNCHER IS SACRED. The block list was suspending your launcher (and
  your second launcher) - that was part of the drawer not showing suspended
  apps, and every exit ended with a false alarm and the emergency valves.
  Launchers are never touched now, and exits end clean.
- THE EXIT IS FASTER AGAIN. Its last unbounded fan (a dozen checks at once)
  is bounded six at a time: the 103-second revert in your log is seconds.
- A full code audit removed everything dead: the old Low-Power writer,
  unused helpers and wrappers, and the app's unused state map.
- The full test rig passes 623 checks, 0 failed.

FROM v3.7.11
- THE NAVIGATION BAR STAYS. Every worker now runs at background priority
  (the interface always wins the CPU), the asleep options run six at a
  time instead of two, and the daemon no longer waits on them - your
  screen-off took seven minutes in the last log; now the core timer fires
  on schedule and a wake is answered instantly.
- TURN ON/OFF IS FASTER, YOUR TIP: the processor and graphics caps are
  applied LAST on the way in and lifted FIRST on the way out, so all the
  per-app work runs at the phone's own speed (the 100-second exit release
  was capped; now it is not).
- THREE-BUTTON NAVIGATION IS PART OF "Power-saving home" now - one switch,
  no separate option. Your own navigation still comes back on exit.
- THE TILE NOW SHOWS ITSELF ACTIVE (blue, like other tiles), and the app's
  button follows the mode - the app was reading the wrong switch file.
- With the mode's home off, your launcher is refreshed on activation so
  suspended apps show as suspended in the drawer.
- The full test rig passes 615 checks, 0 failed.

FROM v3.7.10
- RECOVERY IS FAST NOW. su -c sh /data/adb/spsm/scripts/engine.sh six-restore
  used to free 264 apps one by one - minutes. It now frees six at a time,
  waits its turn if a change is mid-flight, and says so in the log if the
  mode is still on (its next change would re-apply its choices).
- The options screen names what you toggled ("Wi-Fi off enabled"), not the
  option's internal id.
- The full test rig passes 600 checks, 0 failed.

FROM v3.7.9
- BUG-HUNT FIXES. The memory sweep stops every suspended app once per
  session now, not again on every screen-off (a suspended app cannot start,
  so it cannot take memory back - redoing it only kept the phone busy).
  Runtime overlays - packages that are only resources - are never suspended
  or restricted by "Restrict system apps too"; one of them was in the last
  log's block list, and taking it could have broken app theming.
- EVERY OPTION NOW READS PLAINLY. Same behaviour, same defaults; the titles
  and descriptions are rewritten the way a phone maker's own power-saving
  mode reads - short, and in your language.
- THE APP ICON IS LAUNCHER-SIZED. The battery no longer fills the whole tile.
- The full test rig passes 594 checks, 0 failed.

FROM v3.7.8
- THE PARALLEL WORK NOW HAS A CEILING. v3.7.7 ran the per-app work and the
  wake/deep fans wide open - dozens of package-manager calls at the same
  instant on cores held at minimum speed - and that was the load spike, the
  general slowness and the navigation bar disappearing for whole seconds.
  Now: six packages at a time, two options at a time, cores still first on
  wake. Same speed in wall time, a fraction of the peak load.
- ANDROID'S OWN PLUMBING CAN NO LONGER BE SUSPENDED. With "Restrict system
  apps too" on, v3.7.7 could suspend the share resolver - the app every
  "Share" button goes through - which is where the "intent resolver isn't
  available" dialog came from. The resolver, the permission controller, the
  document picker and the media provider are now in the never-touch set with
  the dialer, SMS, emergency, keyboard, launcher and modem. The option is
  safe to leave on; on a clean ROM it is still fine to leave off.
- The doze-state reads carry timeout lids (15s/15s/5s), so a read that hangs
  costs seconds, not the 889s one cost once in your log.
- The full test rig passes 586 checks, 0 failed.

FROM v3.7.1
- The tile arrived: a real switch (tap = enter/exit in place, long-press =
  Options), named Super Battery Saver, with the work detached from the tile
  so a transition always finishes even if the system unbinds the tile.

FROM v3.6.5
- The frame-rate cap used the command you verified, with the phone's frame-rate
  override armed by this module's system.prop at boot, and refused honestly
  until that first reboot.

FROM v3.6.3
- The tap watcher was rewritten in plain shell (the awk underneath it buffered
  every tap forever - a phone's event stream never ends), and the frame-rate
  option asked the panel's own modes first. Your device showed the tap still
  never arriving and the panel answering nothing, so all of it was removed in
  v3.6.4.

FROM v3.6.2
- The Recents tap watcher itself arrived here: the launcher's recents animation
  line is matched ("recents_animation_input_consumer" is all your log says for a
  press), the touchscreen is read in the phone's own units around a region taken
  from your navigation-bar insets and density, and the list is started and the
  screen read back up to three times, with what "am start" answered written to
  spsm.log. The daemon also stopped acting on the past (logcat is followed from
  now, not replayed) and the exit time is the real one (three stopwatches, not
  one shared). The frame-rate option was introduced here, off by default.
- Nothing was taken from DeepDoze-Enforcer - it does what this module already
  does.

FROM v3.6.1
- THE BAR IS THE PHONE'S OWN. The three buttons this app drew for itself in v3.6.0
  are gone - no layout, no code, no icons. What puts the phone on three-button
  navigation is the system's own command, the same one you ran by hand:
    cmd overlay enable-exclusive --user 0 --category com.android.internal.systemui.navbar.threebutton
  and the setting the ROM keeps in step with it. Back is Back, Home comes to this
  mode's home, and Recents opens this mode's own list.
  On the way out BOTH are put back: the setting, and the overlay that draws your
  own bar (gestural, on this phone - read before anything is touched). A phone
  that takes the command and ignores it is put back explicitly and the log says
  so; a phone that will not say which navigation it uses is left alone.
- The Recents button is synced to this mode's list, on a phone in three-button
  navigation whether this mode put it there or you did. From inside an app the
  launcher's recents screen is caught as it opens, this mode's list is put up,
  the screen is read back, and if the launcher's screen came up instead it is
  stopped and the list is asked for again (up to three tries). A press that does
  not work writes what `am start` answered into the log, so it can be fixed from
  the log instead of guessed at.
FROM v3.6.0
- Clear all, in the recents list: every task on the list is closed at once, and
  the frozen background is stopped with it. The message counts what is left -
  "Cleared 2 · 0 still open" - because the phone's task list is read back rather
  than assumed, and the log line has the memory freed with it.
- New option: "Free background memory" (Options -> Memory, on by default).
  Suspending an app stops it starting; it does not give back the memory it is
  holding. Every app outside your six is stopped outright and made idle when the
  mode goes on and every time the screen goes off, so the memory keeps coming
  back. Nothing is changed here, so there is nothing to undo.
- New option: "Restrict the ROM's background services" (Options -> Apps, deep, on by
  default). While the screen is off, the phone's own packages that are actually
  running are put into the restricted standby bucket with background running
  denied - the same switch Settings offers per app - and are put back on wake.
  Nothing is disabled or suspended, the phone's core (System UI, the phone,
  Settings, the providers, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth/NFC, the launcher, WebView) is never
  touched, nor is anything already exempt from battery optimisation, nor your six.
  The ROM's components live inside system_server, which is Android itself and is
  not touched; what is taken away is the work that keeps it busy.
- A cluster that refuses the power-save governor now has the governors it does
  offer written to the log, with a note when MTK Low Power mode may be pinning it.
- Every open of the recents list is logged with what opened it:
  recents-button, back-button, or home.

FROM v3.5.1
FROM v3.5.0
- (The top bar holds the door on the left and the pencil on the right. How recents
  is opened has changed since - see the top of this file.)
- The recents list has a home icon in the corner to go back to the six apps.
- The power-saving home is tidier: the battery percentage is gone (the estimate
  stays), so is the date under the clock, and the 3x2 grid of apps sits at the
  bottom of the screen, just above the time remaining. A small line under the
  apps says what a press-and-hold there does: "Hold an app to change it".
- New option: "Power-save governor while idle" (Options -> Processor, on by
  default). While the screen is off it sets the kernel's own power-save governor
  on every cluster and writes no frequency ceiling, which is the same saving held
  continuously by the kernel and several fewer writes per screen-off. The
  ceilings still apply while you are using the phone, and the idle report says
  which of the two is holding the frequency: held_by=governor or held_by=ceiling.
- The idle sequence no longer spends minutes on work the phone had already done.
  The deep-sleep request was issued in a way that waited for the phone to fall
  asleep (245s and 619s in one real log) - it is issued in the background now and
  read back. The per-app background limits run together instead of one by one.
  Cores that are already offline are left alone. And the background limits and
  the deep-sleep request are applied once per idle period instead of on every
  screen-off; a real wake clears that record, so the next one applies them again.
- The lines that looked like faults say what they mean now: "no visible change"
  is used when the setting was already the way you wanted it, and the status bar
  option says this ROM has no policy_control at all (so there was nothing to
  clear) rather than sounding like it failed.
- "Switch the launcher's recents off" is off by default now. This ROM refuses
  that switch - the module said so and put it back every time the mode was turned
  on - so it no longer spends seconds on it. It is still in Options for a ROM
  that accepts it.

FROM v3.4.1
- Fixed: v3.4.0 closed itself the moment it was opened. The row of app containers
  on the setup and home screens had changed from one kind of container to another
  (it had to, for the small badge that edit mode uses), and two screens were still
  asking the system for the old kind. Android refuses that at the moment the
  screen appears, which is why the app died instantly and left no chance to reach
  a switch. Both screens now ask for the plain kind, which is what they actually
  use - the badge, the tap and the hold all work exactly as in v3.4.0.
  The build now checks this class of mistake three times over: against the source,
  against the built app, and against the row of containers themselves.
- A problem with one of those containers can no longer take a screen down with it.
  On the power-saving home screen - which is your phone's home while the mode is
  on - the six slots are bound one at a time, and a slot that cannot be bound is
  skipped: five icons and a working Exit are better than a home that will not draw.
- Faster, and honest about it: switching off used to take about 45 seconds. Most
  of that was the long list of apps being suspended and released one at a time;
  those now run together, so the same work finishes in a fraction of it. Nothing
  about what is changed has changed - only how long the phone spends doing it.
- The log now names any step that takes more than two seconds, so a slow exit can
  be pointed at rather than guessed at.
- The build can no longer fail at random on the last step (a tool being closed off
  mid-sentence used to abort the release build once in a while).

NEW IN v3.4.0 (already in this build)
- New home screen, in the spirit of a phone's own super power saving mode: a
  nearly black screen, the large centred clock kept exactly as it was with the
  date under it, a 3x2 grid of large rounded app containers, the battery reading
  and its estimate near the bottom, and a lot of empty black space. The yellow
  "On - Super power saving" pill is gone, and so is every other colour: white and
  grey only.
- Three plain icons at the top: power (exit) on the left; recents and a pencil on
  the right.
- Edit mode: tap the pencil and every slot with an app in it shows a small badge.
  Tap an app and it is taken out of its slot - the slot is empty, with the "+"
  ready for another app. Tap the tick (the pencil changes into one) to finish, or
  hold any app at any time to pick a different one for that slot.
- The exit confirmation is a large dark sheet from the bottom of the screen with
  Cancel and a red Exit. Same question, same behaviour as before.
- Closing a recent app now really closes it. The old code trusted the exit code
  of the command, and on this ROM that command reports success and leaves the task
  where it is - which is why nothing happened however many times you tried. It is
  verified against the phone's own task list now, other forms of the command are
  tried, and if the task still will not go the app itself is stopped, which does
  close it. When even that fails the log says so instead of pretending.
- Switching to a recent app is verified the same way, and falls back to starting
  its activity if the first way does nothing.
- New option: "Switch the launcher's recents off" (Options -> Display, on by
  default). Swiping up, or going home from an app, was starting the launcher and
  drawing its screen over everything - that screen is the launcher's own recents
  component, and this switches it off for as long as the mode is on, then puts its
  setting back on exit. SPSM's Recents button is where you switch apps instead.
  Switch it off in Options if you would rather keep the phone's own recents.

NEXT
- The phone's own recents can still be reached if you want it: Options -> Display
  -> "Switch the launcher's recents off" -> off.

FROM v3.3.1
- The status bar stays visible (the home screen's theme was asking for full
  screen), and a system-wide immersive rule is cleared if your ROM has one
  (Options -> System -> "Status bar kept visible").
- Power limits, the processor's Low Power mode and blur off are held while you use
  the phone; each is one switch in Options.
- SPSM's own recents arrived in v3.2.0: read from the phone's task list, so the
  launcher is never started to switch apps.

INSTALL
1. ResukiSU -> Modules -> Install from storage -> Axion-SPSM-v3.7.7-RMX3430.zip
2. Reboot.
3. App drawer -> Super Power Saving
4. ResukiSU Superuser -> Allow

TURN ON
1. Options -> untick anything you do not want changed. Press Check if you want to
   know first which options do anything on this phone.
2. Pick six apps.
3. Turn on. The black home appears in about a second; the rest finishes behind it.
4. /data/adb/spsm/spsm.log and /data/adb/spsm/journal/ hold the details.

WHILE ON
- The six apps you chose work normally. Nothing else is held open.
- Power button wakes instantly (deep sleep, the background limits and the
  sleeping cores are released on wake; the governor and the GPU floor stay,
  because that is what this mode is for).
- The phone is slower than usual on purpose: the power-save governor holds the
  CPU at its lowest speeds for as long as the mode is on. Switch "Power-save
  governor, always" off if you want the phone's own speed back while you use
  it; the asleep saving keeps its own switches.
- Calls, SMS and mobile data keep working, unless you ticked "Turn off mobile
  data". Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC and location are switched off only if you left
  those options ticked, and come back on exit if they were on before.
- Anything that saves nothing on this phone says so under the option: press
  Check to have each option tried and measured.
- Recents is the phone's own Recents button. Press it anywhere, including inside
  an app: this mode's list comes up, with Clear all in its header.
- All three buttons of the bottom bar are the phone's: Back and Home were never
  taken away, and Home now means this mode's home.
- The ROM-background step that used to take four minutes (measured on the phone)
  now takes a couple of seconds, and the exit stops the daemon before the revert
  instead of after it, releases the app list in one go, and writes independent
  values together. Both are in this build.
- Logging stays on, so you can record a log while the mode runs.

TURN OFF
- Door -> Exit. Everything is put back from the journal.
- Or: su -c 'sh /data/adb/spsm/exit.sh'

HOW MUCH IT SAVED
- /data/adb/spsm/drain.log - one line per sleep, e.g.
  2026-09-10 23:41:02 screen off 84% -> 82% in 421 min (0.28%/h)
- /data/adb/spsm/spsm.log - what was applied, what was put back.

CHECKING THAT IT REVERTED
- su -c 'sh /data/adb/spsm/scripts/engine.sh verify'
  Small drift count = all good. "left-alone" means you changed that value
  yourself while the mode was on, so it was deliberately not overwritten.

STUCK
- ResukiSU -> Modules -> remove Axion Super Power Saving -> reboot
  (removal reverts first, then uninstalls itself)
- Read-only diagnostic, writes nothing: su -c 'sh /sdcard/DIAG.sh'

IF SOMETHING LOOKS WRONG
------------------------
You do not need this app to get out of the mode. In the KernelSU / ResukiSU
manager, open this module and press its Action button: that toggles the mode off
and puts everything back, including your normal launcher.

If your home screen ever looks wrong (no launcher, or it keeps restarting),
these three commands restore it:
  su -c 'cmd role add-role-holder android.app.role.HOME com.android.launcher3'
  su -c 'cmd package set-home-activity com.android.launcher3/.Launcher'
  su -c 'am start -a android.intent.action.MAIN -c android.intent.category.HOME'

A reboot also reverts an unfinished session: nothing this module changes
survives a boot.
